Docs: Add CLI proposal (#3)
dev-sys-do/orka: docs/proposals/cli/README.md

## Workload description

The workload will be presented in a yaml file.

The yaml will need to follow this pattern: 

```yaml
version: 1                     # Default to last supported version 
workload:
    kind: container            # "container", "bare-metal" 
    name: postgres             
    network: "network_name"    # User namespaced
    environment:
        - key: value
        - key2: value2
        - keyX: valueX

    registry: ghcr | dockerhub # Default to dockerhub, optional
    image: postgres:15
    ports: 
        - "EXPOSED PORT:INTERNAL PORT"
```

## Configuration

`orkactl` users can configure the CLI through a configuration file, located by default at `$HOME/.config/orka/config.yaml`.

Any command option passed through `orkactl` overrides the corresponding configuration file settings.

### Configurable properties

The following `orkactl` properties can be set though the configuration file:

| Property Key             | Description | Optional | Default Value |
|--------------------------|-------------|----------|---------------|
| `apiUrl`                 | The URL to the Cluster API instance | Yes | `http://localhost` |

> Orkactl allow the user to modify the following configuration:

Reviewer: You can remove that line.

# orkactl

## Requirements

> For the v0 of orka, only some services are available, which you can see below:

Reviewer: v0, v1, etc are internal milestones that this document should not bother about.

Here we want to get the component overall requirements, scope and architecture. What will be achieved with v0 is a project management and scheduling issue.

### Provided services

- single tenant  
- single node  
- single workload kind (containers)  

### Out of scope services (for v0)

- Ressource limitation  
- Multi tenant
- Multi workload (VM, containers, bare metal)
- Scalabilty
- High Availability
- Upgradable
- Monitoring
- Per tenant networks

## High Level Architecture

> We are the CLI. As such, we will only communicate with the Cluster API and get information from it.

Reviewer: I suggest making it less personal. You're not a CLI, afair ;-)

```suggestion
As the cluster CLI, `orkactl` communicates with the Cluster REST API to send requests to it and retrieve cluster information back from it.
```

Author: > I suggest making it less personal. You're not a CLI, afair ;-)

*You never know*
![pixiz-11-07-2023-15-33-05](https://github.com/dev-sys-do/orka/assets/24864674/9ea247f5-6b5c-4548-97bf-fdf3673da9ac)

Jokes aside, you're right. The document should be redacted in a more impersonal tone.

```mermaid
---
title: "Orka: High-level Architecture"
---
flowchart LR
    cli[CLI]

    subgraph Cluster
        subgraph Control Plane
            api[Cluster API]
            ctr[Controller]
            sch[Scheduler]
        end

        subgraph Nodes
            subgraph Node1
                a1[Agent]
            end
            subgraph Node2
                a2[Agent]
            end
            subgraph Node3
                a3[Agent]
            end
        end

    end

    cli <--> api
    api <--> ctr
    ctr <--> sch

    a1 & a2 & a3 --> sch

    a1 ~~~ a2 ~~~ a3

```

## Transport Protocol

As a CLI, our component interface will communicate to the ClusterAPI using the HTTPS Protocol.

> Our CLI will contact the API through the following routes:

Reviewer: Those are not routes, they're HTTP requests.

Reviewer 2: We meant "route" as in "routing to a certain endpoint". Would you consider "HTTP Requests" to be more accurate, or shall we explain it better ?

Reviewer: The former, 'HTTP requests' is a more accurate term.

- `GET /workload` returns all workloads
- `GET /instance` returns all instances

> - `GET /workload/:id` returns workload of id `:id`

Reviewer: why `:id` and not simply `id` ?

Author: The `:` notation was used to denote which parts of the URL path are dynamic. 
Do you think it hurts readability ?

Reviewer: > The `:` notation was used to denote which parts of the URL path are dynamic. 

Thanks for the clarification.

> Do you think it hurts readability ?

As long as an actual path is `/workload/12345678` and not `workload/:12345678`, I'm fine.

Author: The actual path is indeed `/workload/12345678` :+1:

Reviewer: Good then.

- `GET /instance/:id` returns instances of id `:id`
- `POST /workload` creates a new workload
- `POST /instance` creates a new instance
- `DELETE /workload/:id` deletes an existing workload of id `:id`
- `DELETE /instance/:id` deletes an existing instance of id `:id`

## CLI

> Our CLI will dispose of multiple commands, with needed or optional arguments, as follow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`orkactl` provides the following set of commands:
```

**Optional arguments** are represented between `[]`

**Parameter arguments** are represented between `<>`

- `orkactl config set <configResource> <value>`

- `orkactl config get <configResource>`

- `orkactl create workload -f work.yaml`

- `orkactl delete workload <workload-id>`

- `orkactl create instance <workload-id>`

- `orkactl delete instance <instance-id>`

- `orkactl get workload [--id <workload-id>]`

- `orkactl get instance [--id <instance-id>]`

## Workload description

The workload will be presented in a yaml file.

The yaml will need to follow this pattern: 

```yaml
version: 1                     # Default to last supported version 
workload:
    kind: "container"          # Only "container" for v0
    name: postgres
    environment:
        - key: value
        - key2: value2
        - keyX: valueX

    registry: ghcr | dockerhub # Default to dockerhub, optional
    image: postgres:15
    port: "EXPOSED PORT:INTERNAL PORT"

```

## Config

> Orkactl has a configuration file the user can edit, it is located by default at `$HOME/.orka/config.yaml`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`orkactl` users can configure the CLI through a configuration file, located by default at `$HOME/.orka/config.yaml`.
```

> Orkactl has a configuration file the user can edit, it is located by default at `$HOME/.orka/config.yaml`.

Reviewer 3: Please use the standard XDG user directory for storing `orkactl`'s configuration.
```suggestion
Orkactl has a configuration file the user can edit, it is located by default at `$HOME/.config/orka/config.yaml`.
```

> `orkactl` users can configure the CLI through a configuration file, located by default at `$HOME/.orka/config.yaml`.

Reviewer 3: Please use the standard XDG user directory for storing `orkactl`'s configuration.
```suggestion
`orkactl` users can configure the CLI through a configuration file, located by default at `$HOME/.config/orka/config.yaml`.
```

> The configuration can be overriden by an orkactl command.

Reviewer: Please be a little more precise: Any command option passed through the `orkactl` CLI overrides the corresponding configuration file settings.

Orkactl allow the user to modify the following configuration:

```yaml
apiUrl: https://localhost   # The FQDN of a cluster API instance, default to localhost

> ```

Reviewer: You should provide a complete example of an `orkactl` configuration file to highlight what's supported by this file.

Reviewer 2: As of today, this is the only configuration available :sweat_smile:

Reviewer: I mean to have something a little clearer and more formal like e.g. https://github.com/confidential-containers/kbs/blob/main/docs/config.md#configurable-properties
